Now that we've got the basics out of the way,
it's time to dive into some code.
What I'd like to share with you now is switch to my code editor,
and show you the basic project that we'll be using
in order to separate out a contract into data and logic.
So in the code,
you'll see a subfolder called ExerciseC6C.
So let's look at this code.
So the scenario we have here is that we have a contract that represents employees.
So employees have a profile and the contract simply focuses on registering an employee.
Then if you think of these employees as salespersons,
they have the ability to calculate a bonus.
Now, the way that works is when
an employee adds a sale or rather add up on behalf of the employee adds the sale,
the amount of the sale is included with that transaction,
and the smart contract calculates the bonus.
So we have here in lines 146-153,
a statements that essentially state what percentage of bonus
commission the salesperson is eligible for based on the amount of sales they had.
That is aggregated and stored.
At some point, there would be code that would allow
the employee to withdraw the bonus from the smart contract.
So obviously, there could be a lot more you could do for a real scenario like this.
I've contrived this particular scenario.
So it's easy for us to separate the data and logic,
while having some semblance of a practical application such as sales.
But there's obvious flaws or shortcomings that you will see,
but let's focus on the code.
So with this code in place,
one of the first things I want to do is make sure that my tests run correctly.
So let's look at what the test is doing first.
So we have one test.
What we're doing in that test is we are registering an employee,
we are adding a sale for them,
and then we are calculating their bonus.
So that's our arrange, act, assert, pattern.
Let's go ahead and run NPM test and make sure that that succeeds.
So if all goes well,
we should see that test passing to say that as it stands,
the single contract with its code is in working shape.
All right. That works.
Now, let's consider scenario which I alluded to earlier whereby
the business rules for computing sales bonuses have changed.
If this contract is already deployed,
that's going to be a problem because you can no longer
change or device the calculate bonus function.
So how are we going to ensure that as business rules change,
that the rules for calculating bonus can also
be adapted and keep working in the smart contract?
So that's the gist of what we're going to do is split up this contract so
that the ability to calculate the bonus goes into application logic,
whereas the data associated with the sales employees,
their bonus, etc., remains in the base data.
Let's look at the specifics for our exercise.
So we're going to create separate contracts.
We're going to first focus on creating an application contract.
For that, we'll use a contract stub that has been provided in the project.
Next what we'll do is we'll move some of the logic from the data contract,
that doesn't belong there anymore,
into the new application logic contract.
Finally, we will have to create
some temporary stubs as we are working through the process to handle
the fact that some of the code that the contract requires will no longer exist.
This will become evident as we get into the code.
I've structured the exercises today,
so at every step of the way,
you run truffle compile and ensure that your code compiles.
The reason this is important is when you are making major changes like this,
which is essentially refactoring an app,
you want to catch errors early on and not wait until
you've done all this refactoring before you compile.
So we're going to compile as we go and ensure that we have
good working code every step of the way.